# Astronomical Data-Modeling and Interpretation-Progress
This is the link for a quick review of my progress in the Project : https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YRyl79p-NKa6zII8U-iWkacauMOlPMM8B_Ma-BKHupM/edit?usp=sharing where you can add comments to my progress. I have added both python scripts as well as Jupyter Notebooks so use whichever you want.
# Week 1 (Assignment)
The solution code for Q (i) of this Assignment is the Python script "Rolling_Dice.py". Please note that in order to run the script you need 4 Python modules - NumPy, MatPlotLib, Random and Math. Once you run the script, it will ask you enter the number of experiments to be performed. On entering that, it will display the histogram. We can note that for substantially large number of observations, the expected probability is obtained as can be seen in the histogram. Answer to Q(ii) of the assignment can be found in "Assignment Q3 Answer.pdf". For Q(iii), the solution is the Python script "String_Sort.py". Here, I have implemented the Merge Sort Algorithm which is quite fast. For running this script, first put "String_Sort.py" and your data file(preferably a .txt file) in a folder and run "String_Sort.py". It will ask you to enter the name of file which contains data (Strings on each line). After you enter the Strings will be displayed.
# Week 2
In week 2 I learnt about different kinds of stackings. Stacking is basically using multiple images and merging them together by using mean or median of the values at each pixel. Accordingly, it is mean or median stacking. Mean stacking is a lot more sensitive to outliers. What this means is that if we have a list of reals and we change say the maximum or minimum number, then the mean will be changed quiet significantly. Now that's quiet possible in real life due to the errors introduced by the measuring device (Like CCDs). Median is almost insensitive to such extreme value changes and hence median stacking is used. But the issue is that median stacking loads in a lot of memory as it loads all the images at once and there can be thousands of them. Hence, an Algorithm is used called as binapprox (Bin Approximation) Algorithm. This is implemented as a Python Script/Jupyter Notebook and explanation of this Algorithm is also provided. 
